july 18 1981 in the town of brookfield
connecticut edward and lorraine warren
were called to the home of
eight-year-old david glatzel
who is under the possession of a demonic
entity
joining them are david's parents carl
and judy sister debbie
and debbie's boyfriend aaron johnson the
home appears to have already been
ransacked by a demonic attack with the
chandelier broken and claw marks
scratched across the walls
the group takes a break and arn brings
david to his room to get some sleep
just as a priest father gordon arrives
later david hears a pounding noise in
his room causing him to scream
when everyone runs to check on him david
emerges from the shadows and stabs his
father in the leg
edward grabs david and tell lorraine and
father gordon to start with an exorcism
the demon causes more damage to the
house and causes david's body to contort
unnaturally
while trying to keep things under
control lorraine sees flashes of demonic
and cult-like visions
the demon uses david's body to attack
edward in his heart
aaron grabs david and talks to him
telling the demon to take him instead
which edward witnesses the chaos stops
and david appears to be cured
lorraine rushes to edward as he loses
his consciousness
the glatzels and iron join lorraine at
the hospital
where the doctor tells lorraine that
edward is in a coma and will need to
have more tests done before a final
diagnosis can be given
the next morning arn wakes up to see
debbie and tells her that he thinks they
should move out of brookfield
despite not having a lot of money to
their names
while alone in the house aaron thinks he
sees something moving a cereal box but
it was just a rat inside
he then notices a rotted hole in the
wall just before what looks like an
apparition of an old woman
grabbing him and snarling in his face on
the other side at the hospital
lorraine is visited by father gordon
while she continues to watch over edward
she tells father gordon of how they met
in their youth and how edward took her
to a gazebo where they shared their
first kiss
arn is startled at his job when he sees
another apparition
causing him to be sent home he arrives
to find debbie with their landlord bruno
sauls
just as this happens edward wakes up to
find lorraine and their daughter judy by
his side
he tells lorraine that the demon is in
iron now she tries to call the glatzel
house
but nobody answers because bruno has
turned on the music too loud
lorraine then calls the police and warns
them to get to the glatzel house
aaron feels more and more unwell seeing
what looks like bruno manhandling debbie
arn sees debbie appearing to run and he
goes after her
then he sees bruno as some kind of
monstrous entity
later arn walks down the road when an
officer finds him covered in blood
it is reported that arn stabbed bruno to
death 22 times
edward and lorraine talk to arn and
debbie while he is in interrogation
and debbie defends arn by saying that
whatever happened to bruno could not
have been aryn's doing
the warrens talked to aaron's lawyer
about trying to get aaron out of
receiving a death sentence
by trying to prove that he was
influenced by demonic possession
to carry out the murder arn goes to
court and presents the demonic
possession claim
leading to him being placed in a psych
ward edward and lorraine go over their
recordings on david's possessions
based on family statements the trouble
began five months earlier when the
glatzels first moved into their house
david went to check out the waterbed and
played on it until the demon broke
through the mattress and tried to grab
david
when talking to debbie they find that
there is a rug where the bed used to be
followed by rotting wood previously
thought to be the result of water damage
lorraine goes under the house into the
cellar and discovers a witch's totem
the warrens believe that this is the
work of a cult they enlist the aid of
drew in their investigation
at father gordon's suggestion the
warrens visit a former priest named
castner
who brought down a cult called the
disciples of the ram
they show castner the picture of the
totem which he knows is the work of a
satanist
he leads them down to his basement where
he has lots of mementos from the ram
cult
he warns them that this is very
dangerous than you are thinking
but lorraine tells him that we know
dangers better than you think
at the psych ward arn is mopping the
floor when it appears that a nearby
patient is possessed and sings
call me to him and this was the same
song playing when he killed bruno
and one entity hold him from back but
eventually the guard takes him
drew calls the warrens and tells them to
head to danvers to talk to sergeant clay
he tells them about the disappearance of
teenage best friends jessica strong and
katie lincoln
katie was stabbed 22 times as well and
jessica was never found
but a totem just like the one at the
glatzel house was recovered from the
crime scene
clay initially refuses to allow the
warrens to check into the case file
until lorraine proves her clairvoyant
abilities to clay in front of the other
officers
debbie and david visit arn where he
describes what he has been feeling
david knows it completely and causes
them to realize that
the same thing is plaguing iron right
now clay drives the warrens to the site
in the woods where the girls disappeared
lorraine finds the spot where a
possessed jessica started stabbing katie
but the connection makes lorraine mimic
it to the point where edward must get
her to stop
lorraine follows her vision where she
chases katie to the edge of a cliff
a demon hand pulls lorraine down but
edward catches her and pulls her up
lorraine tells him and clay that jessica
must be at the bottom of the river after
falling over
a recovery team goes by and indeed finds
a body
debbie calls the warrens and tells them
that the demon is trying to make aaron
kill himself
as edward tells her to alert the staff
to put arn on suicide watch and suddenly
eerie screeching noise is heard over the
phone
meanwhile arn is given a vial of holy
water by someone in the prison
and when he starts seeing visions he
pours a circle around himself
edward and lorraine break into the
funeral home to find jessica's corpse
lorraine takes her hand and enters the
connection finding herself in what
appears to be a dark basement with black
candles and occult books
she finds the occultist woman that aren
saw earlier
just as she is attempting to possess
iron into slashing his wrists
lorraine stops this and guards find arn
the occultist acknowledges lorraine and
gets a large man's corpse to come alive
edward pulls lorraine away from
jessica's hand to end the connection and
stopping the big corpse from attacking
however lorraine tells edward that the
woman now knows who they are
the warrens meet debbie and drew to go
over more research
they connected the curse between the two
murders as the occultist got the totems
in the possession of both parties
involved
which led to the possessed committing a
murder before the murderer end up
killing themselves
to break the curse one must destroy the
altar upon which it was placed and
lorraine knows that the occultist must
finish the curse for the sake of her own
soul
just as edward tries to find the
connection between the victims
he passes out again when he wakes up the
occultist projects herself to him and
threatens him
the naked fat corpse attacks again and
when edward goes after him
he finds that he was almost attacking
lorraine
they realized that the occultist set
something up for her to invade
the space and they uncover a totem
inside a vase with rotted flowers
upon further investigation edward and
drew learn that jessica got her totem in
a box from her school
fairfield university and this led edward
to realize that the occultist works near
there
at the same time lorraine goes to visit
castner for help again
she follows him into the basement where
he reveals that he had a secret daughter
isla who is the occultist in trying to
prevent her from being drawn into the
occult
he got her interested kastner informs
lorraine that there is a tunnel under
the house where isla used to play
and this should be the place where the
altar may be located
lorraine then hears footsteps and
realizes isla is in the house
lorraine goes to find the tunnel while
isla finds kastner and slits his throat
father newman is with debbie at iron
side although he feels isla's presence
just as lorraine discovers the altar
isla prepares to bring the curse to its
conclusion
edward then rushes to the house and goes
to find lorraine
but isla runs forward him as lorraine
and blow powder into his face
it starts possessing him and making him
go into a rage and trying to swing a
sledgehammer at lorraine
as this happens arn's possession gets
out of control
causing the windows in the ward to break
and release him from his restraints
he starts floating and grabs a glass
shard and try to slash his throat
but debbie holds his arm down lorraine
gets through to edward
reminding him of their love and saying
that isla thinks love is their weakness
but it is their strength
edward breaks free of the possession and
smashes the altar
freeing arn from his possession isla
attempts to finish the warrens off
herself
but it is too late for her and her demon
master comes to take her soul to hell
which painfully contorting isla's body
until she is a mere shell
edward brings the altar chalice down
into the warren museum
they then join debbie at the courthouse
as arn's trial goes underway
text states that arn was found guilty of
manslaughter and served five years in
prison
he married debbie while incarcerated and
they are still married to this day
in the final scene edward bring lorraine
to a gazebo
he built in honor of the memory from
when they were first dating
and the movie end up with this